README.md, before:

# Fastify Secrets (core)

![CI](https://github.com/nearform/fastify-secrets-core/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

Simplify development of fastify-secrets plugins

> This module is intended for developers implemeting fastify-secrets plugins, not for developers using fastify-plugin in their fastify projects

## Installation

```
npm install --save fastify-secrets-core
```

## Usage

`fastify-secrets-core` simplifies development of `fastify-secrets` plugins and ensures that all plugins implements the same api.

Each plugin must only provide a simple client that interacts with the secrets storage and `fastify-secrets-core` will glue it to fastify.

### buildPlugin

Create a new fastify plugin by calling `buildPlugin` and providing a client class or constructor and options that will be forwarded to `fastify-plugin`.

`buildPlugin` will return a fastify plugin that can be exported.

#### Example

```js
const { buildPlugin } = require('fastify-secrets-core')
const Client = require('./client')

const plugin = buildPlugin(Client, {
  name: 'fastify-secrets-example'
})
```

### Client

The client that needs to be provided to `fastify-secrets-core` should implement this methods:

- `constructor`
- `async get(ref)` (required) This will be called to fetch a single secret identified by reference. It's up to the implementation what ref is.
- `async close()` (optional) This method will be called, if present, when the plugin is done fetching the secrets to give a chance to implementations to close any connection or run any teardown code. No further calls to the `get` method will be run after close.

### Example

This is a basic client implementation that reads secrets from `process.env`

```js
class Client {
  constructor() {
    console.log('client contructor')
  }

  async get(ref) {
    return process.env[ref]
  }

  async close() {
    console.log('client close')
  }
}

```

### Resulting plugin

The resulting plugin can be registered directly in fastify.
These are the available options:

- `secrets` (required). A non-empty object representing a map of secret keys and references. The plugin will decorate fastify with a `secrets` object with the same keys as this option but will replace the references with the actual values for the secret as fetched with `client.get(reference)`
- `namespace` (optional). If present, the plugin will add the secret values to `fastify.secrets.namespace` instead of `fastify.secrets`.
- `concurrency` (optional, defaults to 5). How  many concurrent call will be made to `client.get`. This is handled by `fastify-secrets-core` and it's transparent to the implementation.
- `clientOptions` (optional). A value that will be provided to the constructor of the `Client`. Useful to allow plugin users to customize the plugin.

The plugin will also expose the original Client for uses outside of fastify (i.e. db migrations and scripts)

#### Example

Assuming a plugin is built as per the previous examples, it can be used as

```js
fastify.register(plugin, {
  namespace: 'db',
  concurrency: 5,
  secrets: {
    user: 'PG_USER',
    pass: 'PG_PASS'
  },
  clientOptions: {
    optional: 'value'
  }
})

await fastify.ready()

console.log(fastify.secrets.db.pass)

```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

Copyright NearForm Ltd 2020. Licensed under the [Apache-2.0 license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Commit message:

feat: allow buildPlugin to accept array of secret names (#138)
* feat: allow buildPlugin to accept array of secret names

* chore: linting

* fix test

* chore: use p-reduce

* docs: update docs to document array secrets option

Co-authored-by: Andrew Winterbotham <andrew.winterbotham@nearform.com>
Co-authored-by: Simone Busoli <simone.busoli@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Fastify Secrets (core)

![CI](https://github.com/nearform/fastify-secrets-core/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

Simplify development of fastify-secrets plugins

> This module is intended for developers implemeting fastify-secrets plugins, not for developers using fastify-plugin in their fastify projects

## Installation

```
npm install --save fastify-secrets-core
```

## Usage

`fastify-secrets-core` simplifies development of `fastify-secrets` plugins and ensures that all plugins implements the same api.

Each plugin must only provide a simple client that interacts with the secrets storage and `fastify-secrets-core` will glue it to fastify.

### buildPlugin

Create a new fastify plugin by calling `buildPlugin` and providing a client class or constructor and options that will be forwarded to `fastify-plugin`.

`buildPlugin` will return a fastify plugin that can be exported.

#### Example

```js
const { buildPlugin } = require('fastify-secrets-core')
const Client = require('./client')

const plugin = buildPlugin(Client, {
  name: 'fastify-secrets-example'
})
```

### Client

The client that needs to be provided to `fastify-secrets-core` should implement this methods:

- `constructor`
- `async get(ref)` (required) This will be called to fetch a single secret identified by reference. It's up to the implementation what ref is.
- `async close()` (optional) This method will be called, if present, when the plugin is done fetching the secrets to give a chance to implementations to close any connection or run any teardown code. No further calls to the `get` method will be run after close.

### Example

This is a basic client implementation that reads secrets from `process.env`

```js
class Client {
  constructor() {
    console.log('client contructor')
  }

  async get(ref) {
    return process.env[ref]
  }

  async close() {
    console.log('client close')
  }
}
```

### Resulting plugin

The resulting plugin can be registered directly in fastify.
These are the available options:

- `secrets` (required). A non-empty object representing a map of secret keys and references, or an array of strings. The plugin will decorate fastify with a `secrets` object with the same keys as this option (for object values) or with the same keys as the array elements (for array values) but will replace the references with the actual values for the secret as fetched with `client.get(reference)`
- `namespace` (optional). If present, the plugin will add the secret values to `fastify.secrets.namespace` instead of `fastify.secrets`.
- `concurrency` (optional, defaults to 5). How many concurrent call will be made to `client.get`. This is handled by `fastify-secrets-core` and it's transparent to the implementation.
- `clientOptions` (optional). A value that will be provided to the constructor of the `Client`. Useful to allow plugin users to customize the plugin.

The plugin will also expose the original Client for uses outside of fastify (i.e. db migrations and scripts)

#### Example

Assuming a plugin is built as per the previous examples, it can be used as:

```js
fastify.register(plugin, {
  namespace: 'db',
  concurrency: 5,
  secrets: {
    user: 'PG_USER',
    pass: 'PG_PASS'
  },
  clientOptions: {
    optional: 'value'
  }
})

await fastify.ready()

console.log(fastify.secrets.db.pass)
```

Or, with an array `secrets` option:

```js
fastify.register(plugin, {
  namespace: 'db',
  concurrency: 5,
  secrets: ['PG_USER', 'PG_PASS'],
  clientOptions: {
    optional: 'value'
  }
})

await fastify.ready()

console.log(fastify.secrets.db.PG_PASS)
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

Copyright NearForm Ltd 2020. Licensed under the [Apache-2.0 license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
